`title`Mexico & Guatemala
What makes a pilgrimage? Being drawn to a place and following the call….without knowing what the experience will be, but recognising it will have a profound impact on you, trusting the experience as an incredible gift that speaks to your soul...and as such it is rarely logical but indeed more magical in nature.

My last really incredible travel story came from finally answering the 12 year calling to visit the Mayan regions of Mexico and Guatemala. It started with a very strong pull to that part of the world, so strong that I finally “asked” spirit to show me where I needed to travel on a world map when I was alone one night. When I was shown the region I had no idea at first there was a Mayan connection, but I have learnt to trust what I am drawn to and shown, and so started to read about Guatemala in the lonely planet guide. I devoured the entire chapter about Antigua and Lake Atitlan....this area lured me with teh descriptions of small villages around the highest lake in world…..lodgings designed like pyramids you could easily get lost for a few months if you so choose, to learn Spanish and meet fellow travellers. This all solidly captured my interest and intention to ‘one day’ travel there.

There were a myriad of things I loved about Mexico & Guatemala immediately. The people smile and are open and happy. The food is exceptional. Nothing I write can describe what your taste buds will learn to appreciate instantly when they discover first hand the fresh taste of real Mexican food. Most dishes are corn based, so eating was an easy affair which as a coeliac, it has not been for years. Tequila and Mezcal are now close friends and no matter how much was consumed, I always only felt happy and whole, not sick. There is dancing everywhere! Dancing on cobblestone streets of Merida early at night, dancing in the small funky clubs of colonial San Cristobal with an international mix of cool travellers, enjoying salsa dance classes in Antigua, I was very much in the right place to feed my soul with delights. The Mayan ruins of Tulum, Palenque, Uxmal, Chicken Itza were all impressive and demanded reflection. I was able to easily understand all cultural and historical explanations and interpretations from the guides, despite their thick accents. My comprehension skills are slow at the best of times, so I was left feeling like I already learnt about Mayans in some past time.

One highlight of many was sitting with a community of remote native Indian villagers, mostly woman and children meeting in the town square in traditional clothes to enrol into school. It made for a spectacular sight that could well have been in National Geographic. Being witness to the spectacular colourful textiles clothing local Indians wearing blue, purple and green, colours equally open and vibrant in nature. Just when I thought my adventure had created the ultimate contentment within me, the jewel of the journey was revealed to me.

A half day boat trip to three local villages on the lake lead to a young teenage boy meeting us at the boats and asking me to come with him to witness an important ceremony. He had asked a number of people and all had assumed he was trying to make money by being offering his services as a guide or selling them things. We had explored two villages already so everyone was tired and hungry. He persisted. After some resistance within myself, I made the decision that I could trust him, and so I followed him. That remains a choice I am very proud of. He took me weaving along backstreets, a true labyrinth, a spot that would not found without help.

Three shamans from three villages had joined together and had commenced a Mayan ceremony. I read blogs about one traveller who was in Guatemala over a year trying to locate this infamous pagan ceremony.  It is here I witnessed the veneration of Maximon.

	“Maximon - A god of travelers, merchants, medicine men/women, mischief and fertility, that was conflated with the Christian figure of Saint Simon and in modern times is part of the celebrations surrounding Holy Week.”

http://www.vice.com/read/worshipping-at-the-altar-of-maximn-the-drunken-devilish-mayan-god-beloved-in-guatemala

The Mayan culture is alive, active and strong in Guatemala...for a people who have been victims of genocide, this is truly remarkable. This is one part of the world I intend to return to.

http://ppu.org.uk/genocide/g_guatemala.html